---
title: Life and Death
date: 2026-01-01
description: "Life mourns as Death comes for the last living being"
---

You know I am here, even if you haven’t seen me yet. After all this time together, you can feel my presence. The icy chill that fills the air when I approach. The shadows that grow long and deep. The stillness in the air. Yes, you know I am here, and you know why I’ve come. I find you atop a small hill, lying on your side. Next to you, a small feathered thing cries softly. I watch from a distance as you cradle the creature, singing softly to it. But still the cries continue. It looks so frail, cradled in your arms. I walk towards you, and to my surprise, you do not flee.

“I am tired of running,” you say softly. “I know you will never stop, and I am tired. So do what you came to do.”

I was alone before you came. I don’t really know where you came from, or how you got here. But one day there was silence, and the next, all I could hear was your laughter. I had never heard anything so beautiful before. The earth itself, once cold and empty, began to sway to the sound of your voice. You knelt down and began to mould the ground into all manner of shapes. And then you spoke to them. To my amazement, they began to move. I watched silently from the shadows, marvelling as they danced around you. How they laughed and sang beneath the night sky. Soon you had filled the entire world with all your children, each one more wondrous than the next. Some swam deep beneath the waves, others soared up high through the clouds. But some were nasty. They used you while they needed you, and then they forgot you. They began to hurt you in their ignorance and arrogance, burning and maiming. Hurting you hurt them as well, but they didn’t care. Blindly, they pushed you more and more, until they brought you to your knees, coughing and wheezing as your lungs filled with smoke and oil. I remember how I felt when I first saw the scars covering your body. I had nothing but hatred for them, and I admit I was glad when they were finally gone. I thought you would be glad too, but instead you mourned them. Despite everything they did to you, you never stopped loving them. That’s what you are, deep down. Love.

I remember your first child. I watched as you lovingly shaped it from the earth, slowly bringing it into existence. It leapt out of your arms, full of curiosity and joy. Together you both bounded across plains and conquered mountains, seeing all this world had to offer. But time passed. It began slow, unable to keep up with you. It grew old. Its bones creaked when it tried to move, so it lay still as mind and body wasted away. It was condemned to an eternity of torment and agony. It tried to cry, to call out for help, but no sound would come. I watched you as you lay by its side, eons passing by as you tried everything in your power to comfort it. To ease its pain. But there was nothing you could do. You screamed until your throat was raw, tears falling for the first time in existence. And when your anger and frustration were spent, you collapsed into yourself and began to softly weep. I couldn’t stand watching you suffer any longer. I revealed myself then, emerging from the darkness. I reached out and raised your suffering child. I held it close, and kissed it softly on the brow. It gasped a final breath in relief, its agony finally over. I laid it down gently, and turned to face you, hoping you could now feel some measure of peace. But all I saw was horror in your eyes. You recoiled at the very sight of me, something deep inside you rejecting my very existence. I knew from that moment you would never forgive me for what I had done, for what I would continue to do to all that you loved.

“You really are a wretched thing,” you say, staring into the distance. “You call it kindness. What cruel kindness it is, to take my children from me.”

The cries had finally stopped. For the first time in a long time, the world is silent. Now it is just you and me. I know there is nothing I can say that will make it easier, so I stay quiet. I sit beside you, and watch as the sun begins to set. We stay like that for a while, sitting in silence. I turn to try and say something, to offer some form of comfort, but I stop myself. Your eyes are closed, and there is a whisper of a smile upon your lips. You are thinking of them, aren’t you? Remembering all the time you spent with each of them. I took them from you, one by one, but the memory of each of them still plays on in your mind. Slowly, your eyes open and the smile fades. You wrap your arm around yourself, squeezing your body tight. Your fists clench and your body begins to tremble. You fight it as long as you can, but eventually you give way to the grief. The tears begin to fall as they so often did, but I know this time is different. This time it will never end. You turn to me then. You look deep into me, into the depths of my being, truly seeing me for the first time. I hope that even a part of you understands now, that I never wanted to hurt you. I just wanted to take their pain away. To take your pain away. You lay your head gently on my shoulder, weeping softly. I reach out and rest my hand atop your head, slowly stroking your hair. The pale white bone of my hand is a stark contrast against the deep green. I hold you close, and quietly kiss the top of your head. The sound of your sobbing quietens, and the light slowly fades from your eyes. The earth trembles beneath us, and then it too is silent. The pain of your grief finally ends.

I am alone again.

---

<div class="ml-embedded" data-form="KJqQ2J"></div>

---